---
layout: post
title:  "Bridging the Gap"
date:   2017-06-08 14:09:31 +0000
---

For the past 3 generations, the men in my family have been entrepreneurs in the transportation industry starting with my great grandfather in Jersey City.  My great grandfather was a milk man and many of his routes went through the NJ meadowlands and other sections of the state.  One day while he was on a milk route driving through the meadowlands, he crossed over an unmarked railroad crossing at the wrong time and was hit by a train in his milk truck.  He survived and received a settlement from the railroad company/milk company for what occurred. With those proceeds, my great grandfather bought a single bus that he used to begin a city bus line outside Jersey City.  Growing up in that atmosphere, my grandfather took over ownership of that bus company and operated it for many years.  My father grew up and worked in that same industry before creating his own company in northern NJ for transporting students with special needs to school. 

Given my family’s history and background, I grew up in an atmosphere of business entrepreneurship. In college I studied International Business, Finance, and Spanish with hopes of being able to find my own business niche.  My education led me to a consulting job with a Spanish firm in Boston MA.  Our client was an international bank from Spain who had recently acquired a majority interest of a US bank in New England. I was placed within the bank’s quality assurance department which focused on software regression testing and incident resolution.  Given this position was fairly heavy in IT and software development protocols, I relished in the experience and learned as much as I could with my time there.  This was my first introduction to software development.

After a few years in Boston and at the bank, I proposed to my girlfriend (now my wife) and the two of us began thinking about relocating ourselves closer to our families in NJ and NY so that we can build our own family.  After discussing it over, we decided to relocate to NJ and I would go to work with my father in and help him modernize his business operations and practices. 

There have been several influences which have guided me to learn how to code. The first is the development of  bitcoin and its underlying structure blockchain structure.  When I first heard about blockchain in 2014, I was fascinated with it and how its framework can be applied to and revolutionize many different global industries. At the time I felt fairly confident in IT given my experience in software development at the bank.  However the more I read about how blockchain works, the more I realized how little I knew about programming.  The more I realized how little I knew of programming, the more self aware and interested I became in learning more. 

Aside from blockchain, the time spent at my family’s company has revealed several business opportunities that I would like to design and develop myself.  It has amazed me how vibrant the small business community is.  Although many small businesses have an incredible amount of passion for what they do, many do not have the technical expertise to alleviate some of their more mundane tasks which can be solved through programming and automization. My time and experience with working at a multinational bank and a small family business has shown me that business opportunities are all around us and that if you have the right tools you can get to work on building something for yourself.

